Inspired by my research during industry work and countless home projects, computer science drives me in its fusion of creative problem solving, critical thinking and technology. Awarded the Arkwright Engineering Scholarship for computer science, I have enjoyed the opportunities it has provided, and look forward to sharing my enthusiasm for my chosen subject as a future engineer.

Of my numerous projects, I am especially proud of my NodeJS global multiplayer web game. Now in its second iteration, I have learnt the importance of modularity, API encapsulation and clean network logic. Having redeveloped an older project using these skills, by separating core modules into libraries, I appreciate the role of abstraction within complex systems. In another project, to support students in transferring their programming skills from Scratch, I developed a Python library with familiar syntax and transpiler. The engine abstracted graphics and event-handling, and focused on teaching object-orientation by extending the students’ existing skills. More recently, my summer preparation has involved extensive research into the Android and Universal Windows Platform APIs, which when combined with knowledge from a government cyber security course, has helped me design an AES and RSA based network protocol. Research into networking resumed during a recent internship, where my ability in Python, Docker and Linux was recognised by senior management when I presented my research on Natural Language Processing (NLP). As a result, my team received further funding to fully utilise NLP. I have thrived on these opportunities to communicate complex topics in an easily understood manner, alongside using other crucial skills identified in ‘Clean Code’ by Robert Martin. An example is my Computer Science coursework to develop a wireless PC controlling app, where I worked with five industry professionals as clients and utilised Martin’s best practices.

My other A Level subjects also support my application. Mathematics has given me the confidence to follow my curiosity, to question and prove concepts for myself. Notable examples include binomial distribution, polynomial long division and calculus, each thoroughly enjoyable and rewarding and leading to further research. Calculus for instance, enabled my understanding of neural networks and machine learning, where I realised the importance of abstraction in areas other than computer science. Abstraction was similarly prevalent when studying complex numbers in Further Mathematics, where the Mandelbrot set first caught my attention. Grant Sanderson’s fantastic lectures on Fourier Transformations then inspired my own interpretation of the original equation, relying on trigonometry in place of complex numbers. Using this, I subsequently enjoyed developing algorithms for audio manipulation and spectrogram visualisation in my spare time. Finally, my interest in sound was continued when Physics and Computer Science came together brilliantly during the study of waves. It was incredible to witness theoretical calculations (of radio polarisation and standing waves) come to life in practical experiments, and subsequently explore them further in the development of my website’s JavaScript wave simulator.

While now utilised for software development, my teamwork and leadership skills have been honed during my Scouting career, in which I have led expedition teams and represented both England and Norway (being fluent in Norwegian) in the prestigious World Scout Jamboree. To raise nearly £4000, I developed software for several community events and sold artwork in local shops. This has sharpened my intuition for problem decomposition when faced with substantial challenges.

As well as developing a more holistic understanding of computers during my computer science degree, I look forward to further enhancing my skills as an engineer and solving challenging problems with my creativity, ingenuity and contagious enthusiasm.